# A-Predictive-Model-for-Forecasting-Demand-and-Supply-Information-of-Crops
It is predictive model which is used for forecasting demand and supply information of TOP crops using Machine Learning

Agriculture is the biggest industry in India and it generates a significant number of employments in the country. The features of weather, geography, and soil of India are diverse. As a consequence, a range of crops are grown in the country. India crops include food grains like rice, wheat, and pulses. The increase in population will be more in developing countries like India. When the price of any commodities set too high then the suppliers try to produce more goods to make more profit. Conversely, if the supply is less for any commodities, as consumers have to compete with one other to buy the less supplied goods, results in increased price for the commodity, making consumers suffer with the high price. As there is no synchronization in production and demand for the agricultural commodities, either farmer fail to get good market prices for their products, or consumer suffers high prices due to less production. Around 42% of the people depend on agriculture for their livelihood. The economic upliftment of farmers happens when there is a seamless transfer of agricultural produce from producers to the consumers. It is evident that there is a huge gap between demand and supply of various crops, due to which both farmers and consumers are facing problems. At present, in India there is no system in place to efficiently manage this demand and supply issue. The potential of present-day technologies like data analytics, machine learning can be exploited to overcome these issues. The available data about the demand, supply, price variation of the crops and other factors affecting the supply chain of agricultural produce can be used to analyse and come up with a model to predict and forecast market variations of agricultural crops.
